fix(docs) Use CLI instead of curl for Network Restrictions topic (#47476)
supabase/supabase: apps/docs/content/guides/platform/network-restrictions.mdx

description: "Apply network restrictions for your project's database."
---

This topic explains how to configure network restrictions for your Supabase project's database. Network restrictions let you control which IP ranges can connect to Postgres and its pooler, reducing your project's exposure to unauthorized access.

<Admonition type="note">

If you can't find the Network Restrictions section in your [Database Settings](/dashboard/project/_/database/settings), update your Postgres version in [Infrastructure Settings](/dashboard/project/_/settings/infrastructure).

</Admonition>

> Each Supabase project supports configurable restrictions on the IP ranges allowed to connect to Postgres and its pooler. These restrictions are enforced before traffic reaches your database. Connections that aren't restricted by IP still need to authenticate with valid database credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each Supabase project supports configurable restrictions on IP ranges allowed to connect to Postgres and its pooler. These restrictions take place before traffic reaches your database. Connections that aren't restricted by IP still need to authenticate via database credentials.
```

If direct connections to your database [resolve to an IPv6 address](/dashboard/project/_/database/settings), add both IPv4 and IPv6 CIDRs to your allowlist. Network restrictions apply to all connection routes, whether pooled or direct. There are two exceptions: if you have an extension on the IPv6 migration, or if you have the [IPv4 add-on](/dashboard/project/_/settings/addons), you only need to add IPv4 CIDRs.

> ## Configure with the dashboard [#to-get-started-via-the-dashboard]

Reviewer: Same as below (sorry I am going backwards 🙃).

 
```suggestion
## Configure via dashboard [#configure-via-dashboard]
```

To configure network restrictions with the dashboard:

1. Open your project's [Database Settings](/dashboard/project/_/database/settings) page.
1. In the Network Restrictions section, make your changes. You need [Owner or Admin permissions](/docs/guides/platform/access-control#manage-team-members) to make changes.

> ## Configure with the CLI [#to-get-started-via-the-cli]

Reviewer: Do we need the article?

```suggestion
## Configure via CLI [#configure-via-cli]
```

Author: I've been taught to avoid `via` for being overly formal, Latin language. For localization, language is in spoken English.

It is backed up here: https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#via

> To configure network restrictions with the CLI:

Reviewer: Is this actually necessary? Or maybe rephrase to be slightly different form the title as it sounds redundant..

Author: This was how I was taught to do it -- to include what is called a 'stem sentence.' It is for orientation and scannability.

The rule is headers direct the eye but do not in themselves convey information.

1. [Install](/docs/guides/cli) the Supabase CLI 1.22.0+.
1. [Log in](/docs/guides/cli/local-development#log-in-to-the-supabase-cli) to your Supabase account.
1. If your project was created before December 23, 2022, [upgrade it to the latest Supabase version](/docs/guides/platform/migrating-and-upgrading-projects) before using network restrictions.

> 1. Ensure you have [Owner or Admin permissions](/docs/guides/platform/access-control#manage-team-members) for the project.

Reviewer: Should roles be capitalized? Genuine question, I have no idea what's best.

Author: I don't know either. However, that link is not in the diff. There also needs to be standardization around link usage.

### Check restrictions

To check your current network restrictions:

1. Complete the steps in [Configure with the CLI](#to-get-started-via-the-cli).
1. Run the `get` subcommand to retrieve the restrictions currently in effect:

   ```bash

>    > supabase network-restrictions --project-ref {ref} get --experimental

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   > supabase network-restrictions get --project-ref {ref} --experimental
```

   DB Allowed IPv4 CIDRs: &[183.12.1.1/24]
   DB Allowed IPv6 CIDRs: &[2001:db8:3333:4444:5555:6666:7777:8888/64]
   Restrictions applied successfully: true

>    ```

Author: Adding back in

   If restrictions have never been applied, the allowed CIDRs list is empty and `Restrictions applied successfully` is `false`. All IPs can connect:

   ```bash

>    > supabase network-restrictions --project-ref {ref} get --experimental

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   > supabase network-restrictions get --project-ref {ref} --experimental
```

   DB Allowed IPv4 CIDRs: []
   DB Allowed IPv6 CIDRs: []
   Restrictions applied successfully: false
   ```

### Update restrictions

To update your network restrictions:

1. Complete the steps in [Configure with the CLI](#to-get-started-via-the-cli).
1. Run the `update` subcommand with the CIDRs you want to allow:

   ```bash

>    > supabase network-restrictions --project-ref {ref} update --db-allow-cidr 183.12.1.1/24 --db-allow-cidr 2001:db8:3333:4444:5555:6666:7777:8888/64 --experimental

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   > supabase network-restrictions update --project-ref {ref} --db-allow-cidr 183.12.1.1/24 --db-allow-cidr 2001:db8:3333:4444:5555:6666:7777:8888/64 --experimental
```

   DB Allowed IPv4 CIDRs: &[183.12.1.1/24]
   DB Allowed IPv6 CIDRs: &[2001:db8:3333:4444:5555:6666:7777:8888/64]
   Restrictions applied successfully: true
   ```

   The CIDRs you provide replace any previously applied restrictions. To keep existing restrictions, include them alongside any new CIDRs in the `update` command.

### Append a CIDR to existing restrictions

To append a CIDR to your existing restrictions:

1. Complete the steps in [Configure with the CLI](#to-get-started-via-the-cli).
1. Run the `update` subcommand with the `--append` flag to add a CIDR without replacing existing restrictions:

   ```bash

>    > supabase network-restrictions --project-ref {ref} update --db-allow-cidr 1.2.3.4/32 --append --experimental

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   > supabase network-restrictions update --project-ref {ref} --db-allow-cidr 1.2.3.4/32 --append --experimental
```

   DB Allowed IPv4 CIDRs: &[183.12.1.1/24 1.2.3.4/32]
   DB Allowed IPv6 CIDRs: &[2001:db8:3333:4444:5555:6666:7777:8888/64]
   Restrictions applied successfully: true
   ```

### Remove restrictions

To remove all network restrictions:

> 1. Complete the steps in [Configure with the CLI](#to-get-started-via-the-cli).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Complete the steps from the [Configure with the CLI](#to-get-started-via-the-cli) section.
```

1. Run the `update` subcommand with the CIDR `0.0.0.0/0` to remove all restrictions:

   ```bash

>    > supabase network-restrictions --project-ref {ref} update --db-allow-cidr 0.0.0.0/0 --db-allow-cidr ::/0 --experimental

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   > supabase network-restrictions update --project-ref {ref} --db-allow-cidr 0.0.0.0/0 --db-allow-cidr ::/0 --experimental
```

   DB Allowed IPv4 CIDRs: &[0.0.0.0/0]
   DB Allowed IPv6 CIDRs: &[::/0]
   Restrictions applied successfully: true
   ```

## Limitations

- Network restrictions apply to Postgres and the database pooler. They don't apply to HTTPS APIs such as PostgREST, Storage, and Auth, or to Supabase client libraries like [supabase-js](/docs/reference/javascript).

> - With network restrictions applied, Edge funcitons lose direct access to the database. Use [supabase-js](/docs/reference/javascript) to connect to the database from Edge Functions instead.

Author: ```suggestion
- With network restrictions applied, Edge functions lose direct access to the database. Use [supabase-js](/docs/reference/javascript) to connect to the database from Edge Functions instead.
```

> - If network restrictions are enabled, direct database access from Edge Functions is blocked. Use [supabase-js](/docs/reference/javascript) to connect to the database from Edge Functions instead.

Reviewer: Feels like too much passive voice in this part. Maybe something like this (doesn't have to be this):

```suggestion
- With network restrictions applied, Edge funcitons lose direct access to the database. Use [supabase-js](/docs/reference/javascript) to connect to the database from Edge Functions instead.
```
